---
layout: single
title:  "Topic Proposal"
date:   2022-11-09 12:00:00 -0400
categories: announcements homework
---
This was posted in #announcements in the class Discord server.

- The project proposal can be short, a few sentences even, and can be sent to me here in Discord or on email.

- What I'm looking for is something like: this is what I want to get the computer to do, this is the corpus I was planning on using/creating, this is how I expect it'll turn out, maybe a little bit about how you might start to approach it. Basically enough for me to comment on and suggest things about, like a corpus you might look at or an approach you could try (or a boundary you might impose so that the project doesn't become too huge).

- The project itself is intended to be subjectively substantial but not disproportionately large. It's hard to measure these things for CL/NLP projects. It's not about how many lines of code you write or how many corpora you can process really, or how many poems you can generate, etc. It should be something more than simple/trivial to do, but still something not bigger than appropriate for the last month of a semester. The only way I could think about this was kind of in terms of time spent, I think if you spend 5 hours total on it, it's not a big enough project, but if you spend more than like, what, 25 hours? on it total then it's kind of taken too large a proportion of your available homework time. So, I'd aim for describing a project that is likely to take 15-20 hours to do.