---
layout: single
title:  "Final Project"
date:   2022-11-25 01:00:00 -0400
categories: announcements homework
---
As for the final project, most everyone by now has a basic idea of the kind of thing they're working on.  Even if where it will go exactly may not quite be known prior to doing it.

The main output of this is the final project "paper."  The word "paper" is in quotation marks because it's a bit abstract.  There should be a prose explanation included, but I expect it to take the form of a Jupyter Notebook so that the prose can be interspersed with code or graphs or data listings.

Not taking into account code, graphs, data, the prose explanation should work out to something like 5-10 pages (undergraduate) or 10-20 pages (graduate).  But of course there is no good way to measure this.  So, that is just a ballpark estimate.

The write-up should include some prose about:
- What the basic idea is, what question you're trying to answer or what you are hoping to learn
- What the strategy is for learning the thing or answering the question
- What data you're using, where it came from, in what way it needed to be cleaned up
- Description of the code and/or representations used while processing it
- What results there were, if any (and if not, thoughts about why there weren't any)
- What conclusions this allows us to reach wrt the thing to learn or the question to answer
- What kind of steps might be taken next if the project were to continue.

That is to say, kind of "the obvious stuff."  It shouldn't be hard to get past the lower boundary on the write-up length, it might be more challenging to stay under the upper boundary.

The write-up is due on the last day of class (Mon Dec 12) but you will also briefly present it during one of the last five days of class.  The presentations ARE SHORT.  10 minutes for the undergraduates, 15 minutes for the graduates.  So, when presenting this, you may need to pick a subset of interesting or important data/questions to discuss.  It's fine not to be done at the point of presentation, you can say what you intend to do and what you've done so far.  The primary audience here is your classmates, tell them why it's interesting, how far you've gotten, where you got stuck and what you've tried, etc.  The presentation provides a motivator, though.  
